So, the WebSocket is the fastest way,
how can we transfer the data
between the server and the client?
So, the WebSocket is
the duplex push technologies,
it means that the client can
push the data and the server.
And the way it works is that
the client sends the handshake request
through the HTTP/1 and the server sends
the upgrade request, so response.
So, it basically tells, okay client,
you can upgrade your protocol to TCP.
So, because the WebSockets used
the HTTP connection just to
establish the initial connection and
upgrade its TCP.
And the communication that
will be done after the upgrade
header will be using the TCP
instead of the HTTP.
So, the client can push the data and
the server can respond,
but what are the problems
though with the WebSockets?
The main issue with the WebSocket
is that it's infrastructure wise,
and engineering wise, it's very
complex to maintain the WebSockets.
It's very resource-consuming
because the limit for
the connection within
their WebSocket can open
65,000 TCP socket
connections with a server.
And if the TCP socket takes a lot
of CPU resources to be maintained,
and you would need to have
a very good investment in your
server infrastructure
to support such load.
And the amount of money that you need
to put in the infrastructure will
be incomparable to the server-side
events because of the TCP sockets.
And it also drains energy and
utilize CPU a lot, and
it also used the duplex antenna, so
it will really drain
your battery pretty fast.
The pros, though, for the WebSockets,
if you need a real-time communication,
this is the best way to go.
And it's also, it has the unlimited
number of connections, so
if you're planning to have
500,000 connections in parallel,
this is probably the way when
you want to use the WebSockets.
But the use case is basically when
you work with the machine sensors,
and you're building some code that will
gather the machine sensors' data and
you need this data in real-time.
Also, the online gaming is also a good
way to utilize the WebSockets, trading,
where the precise timing is important,
especially micro-scoping, or
when you need to have
precise location tracking.
So, on average, I would recommend
if you built the chat application,
you don't really need the WebSockets.
You can receive the message
from the server-side events and
POST the message using the normal POST
request, and it will be much cheaper and
easier infrastructure in the code wise.
Also, the WebSockets are stateful,
once you lose the connection
with the WebSockets, you will lose all the
data that was stored within the socket.
So, you need to maintain a separate
infrastructure that will store the state
in some database so you can restore
it from the place you stop,
that's why it's more complicated.
And if you think that
the WebSocket is good,
think twice because it's a very big
investment for the business in general.
And let's get back to our
shop administration app,
what we would use for the endpoints.
So, to get the shopping dollars for
desktop,
we could consider a long polling because
long polling for desktop sounds fine.
And there's always the server-side events,
while for mobile,
we will use the server-side events
to provide better performance,
the same applies to getting new messages.
So, we can get the new messages using
the server-side events, and for
desktop, we could use the short polling,
or again, the server-side events.
For sending the message, for both cases, I
would just use a normal HTTP POST request.
You don't really need the WebSocket
connection to POST the data to the server.
>> Speaker 1: Would SSE work for media
files, like images and videos, as well?
>> Evgenii Ray: No, SSE is not good for
the media content because
the media content is by data.
And you need to utilize
the server-side events mostly for
the text-based data, for the video
content, I will utilize WebRTC instead.
>> Speaker 1: What is
the best protocol for
handling real-time editors like Notion?
>> Evgenii Ray: You mean like
saving the state in Notion?
Okay, so when you work with a Notion,
you don't really need to have
the WebSocket connection to save the data,
so you can basically do the normal
POST request to save the data.
>> Speaker 1: But what about
real-time editing, like multiplayer?
>> Evgenii Ray: When it comes to
real-time editing, you can utilize still,
server-side events, but
when it comes to collaborative editing,
that is getting more complex because
there are special data structures that
store even the research papers,
how to do the collaborative editing.
So, we can speak about about this for
a few hours.
So basically, a protocol wise, server-side
event will be good, but you will need
to optimize your data structures to
support the collaborative editing.
>> Speaker 1: Someone said WebSockets.
>> Evgenii Ray: [LAUGH] So,
it depends on, infrastructure wise,
WebSockets are terrible,
it's really hard to maintain them.
And you also need to
implement lots of overhead,
how you're handling
the data on a WebSockets.
So, you need to have the thoughtful
decision when you want to use it,
I would utilize the normal HTTP POST
request to say the data, and
the server-side events
to receive the data.
If you try to compare the performance
of server-side events,
they are very close to the WebSockets,
all WebSockets are really faster.
I think for the basic cases, server-side
event would handle that, even for
Notion case, this would handle.